# Assignment 1

Make sure to test all your answers in the console.

- Review the [documentation for `parseInt`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/parseInt). Then answer the following questions.
   - The string `"ffff"` represents a hexadecimal number. Write an expression `parseInt(...)` that would return the number that this string represents.
   ```


   ```
   - Do the same for the string "10010101" that represents a number in binary format.
   ```


   ```
   - What does `parseInt` do if it is called with a string it cannot properly process?
   ```


   ```
- Look at the [`Math` library](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math). Then answer the following questions (do NOT use experimental methods; those marked with a little symbol on their side):
   - Write the expression that would compute the circumference of a circle of radius `r`.
   ```


   ```
   - Write an expression that returns a boolean telling us if the number `x` is less than 1 in absolute value.
   ```


   ```
   - Use [`Math.log`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/log) to write an expression that would compute the base 2 logarithm of the number `n`.
   ```


   ```
   - Combine `Math.random` and `Math.floor` to write an expression that produces a random integer from 0 to 2 (i.e. 0, 1 or 2).
   ```


   ```
- How many different types of numbers do we have in Javascript? (Circle correct one)
   - Two: 32bit integers and double-precision 64bit floating point numbers
   - One: all numbers are double-precision 64bit floating point numbers
   - Four: short and long integers, single- and double-precision floating point numbers
- The expression `x / +0` for `x` a **finite number** can have 3 different values, depending on what value `x` has. List all 3 values along with examples of `x` values that produce them.
```




```
- True or False: Javascript can only be run inside a web browser.
